# ECR integration technical specification (archived)

> [!NOTE]  
> ECR is available since version `4.30.1`

## 1. POS-KEY
POS-KEY is a secret key used to encrypt and decrypt the data. It is generated by Haojin App. 

The default POS-KEY is `f46b1f08bec1f39104792cc79ec9aacd`

<br>

The default encrpytion is ON. 

There is an option to switch on/off on merchant portal (MMS) or refresh POS-KEY. And, Haojin App refresh is required to be effective



## 2. Encryption
All data is encrypted by AES. The key is POS-KEY and the IV is `qfpay202306_hjsh`

<br>

The data is encoded by Base64 after encryption.

## 3. Request payload format


| Parameter name | Mandatory | Parameter type | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| amt | required | Integer | Amount x 100, e.g. $10.1 => 1010 |
| func_type | required | String | Instruction code |
| channel | required | String | Wallet name, refer to Channel list |
| out_trade_no | optional | String | Merchant reference. <br> if not passed, the out_trade_no won't be passed |

### 3.1 Trade

> [!NOTE]  
> For QR code payment, MPM/CPM mode is automatically selected base on last usage.

```json
{
    "content": {"amt": 100,"channel": "card_payment","func_type": 1001, "out_trade_no": "456799999999"},
    "digest":"76b9186077cdc2bc5d78ae921309811d"
}
```

For inquiry the transaction result, please use the Inquire API: https://sdk.qfapi.com/?python#transaction-enquiry


### 2.2 Refund / Void

Enter password to proceed, the password is the login password of POS App

```json
{
    "content": {"orderId": "12345678","func_type": 1002},
    "digest":"79fd145311d54d03e4e685d50f15dd7f"
}
```

### 3.3 Print receipt

```json
{
    "content": {"orderId": "12345678","func_type": 3001},
    "digest":"79fd145311d54d03e4e685d50f15dd7f"
}
```

### 3.4 Print transaction summary
```json
{
    "content": {"func_type": 3002},
    "digest":"79fd145311d54d03e4e685d50f15dd7f"
}
```
content：请求的数据信息
digest:content 数据的签名,按照字段顺序拼接成 字段=值 的形式，算签名,


## Sign signature
sample of sign signature


```js
// original payload
content={"amt":100,"channel": "card_payment","func_type":1001,"out_trade_no":"456799999999"} 

// sorted keys in alphabetical ascending order
format_content={amt=100,channel='card_payment',func_type=1001,out_trade_no='456799999999'} 这种格式

// encryption
// !! if the value is empty, pass '' (empty string) instead
digest=md5(format_content + pos_key)
digest=md5({amt=100,channel='card_payment',func_type=1001,out_trade_no='456799999999'}f46b1f08bec1f39104792cc79ec9aacd) 

```

if encryption is enabled, the above payload will be encrypted by AES at `content`, and the `digest` will be calculated based on the encrypted payload.

for example
```json
{
    "content": "{func_type: 3002}",
    "digest":"79fd145311d54d03e4e685d50f15dd7f"
}
```

## 4. Fields explanation

    1、 func_type : business type
        （1）1001 Trade
        （2）1002 Refund   
        （3）3001 Print receipt 
        （4）3002 Print transaction summary

    2、channel: payment method
        （1）、card_payment  Card payment
        （2）、wx            WeChat Pay
        （3）、alipay        Alipay
        （4）、payme         PayMe
        （5）、union         UnionPay
        （6）、fps           FPS
        （7）、octopus       Octopus

    3、amt: Transaction amount, unit is in cent
    
    4、orderId: Transaction reference number, the same as out_trade_no

## 5. Response format
```json
{\"respcd\": \"6000\",\"data\": \"{"aaaaaa"}\",\"respmsg\": \"xxxxxxxxxx\",\"resperr\":\"xxxxxxxxxx\"}
```

    1、respcd: response code
        （1）、"4003"，POS-KEY is invalid
        （2）、"5001"，Decryption failed
        （3）、"4004"，Request method is incorrect, may use POST request
        （4）、"4005"，Other errors
        （5）、"4006"  Incorrect parameter(s)
        （6）、"5001"，Decryption failed

        （7）、"6000"  请求成功     
        （8）、"6001"  用户取消  
        （9）、"6002"  请求错误     
        
    2、respmsg：Response message
    3、resperr：Error message
    4、data:交易或者退款返回的数据，
        （1）交易返回数据字段：    
              respcd;请求响应码
              resmsg;请求信息
              reserr;错误信息
              mchntnm;商户名称
              sysdtm;系统时间
              userid;userid
              busicd;业务代码
              txamt;金额
              txcurrcd;貨幣
              chnlsn;通道序列號
              paydtm;支付时间
              udid;用户id
              syssn;流水号
              clisn;客戶端序列號
              out_trade_no；外部订单号
        （2）退款返回数据字段：
             respcd;请求响应码
             resmsg;请求信息
             reserr;错误信息
             sysdtm;系统时间
             paydtm;支付时间
             txcurrcd;貨幣
             txdtm;时间
             orig_syssn;原生订单号
             out_trade_no;外部订单号
             syssn;系统流水号
             chnlsn;通道序列號
             txamt;退款金额
             originTxamt;原订单金额
    5. If encryption is enabled, the response will be encrypted

## 6. USB data transmission method
 1. Connect the POS to the cash register via USB cable.
 2. follow the USB communication protocol to construct the data. See the ninth article for details: "Cash register & Pos communication protocol".
 3. Data response. The received data needs to be parsed according to the communication protocol, and then the data message is obtained, and then decrypted by AES.

## 7. HTTP protocol
 1. HTTP data transmission method requires POS host IP address and port. The default port of the HTTP method is 9001.
 2. Data message format:
     (1) Encrypt the data message through AES
     (2) Initiate the request through the HTTP Post request
 3. Request API
     (1) Trade: /api/pos/trade
     (2) Refund: /api/pos/cancel
     (3) Print receipt: /api/pos/print_receipt
     (4) Print transaction summary: /api/pos/transaction_info
 4. The request header needs to be set. The request Content-type format is: application/json
 5. The request result needs to be decrypted by AES to obtain the response message data

## 8. TCP protocol
 1. The HTTP data transmission method requires POS host and port. The default port of the HTTP method is 9002.
 2. Cash register connects to POS through socket connection
 3. Data is transmitted through socket. The data format is the encrypted data of the data message after AES encryption.
 4. The result of the request needs to be decrypted by AES to obtain the response message data

## 9. Cash register & Pos communication protocol (USB)

### 9.1 Use scenario
The cash register and the smart POS device communicate through the serial port or Bluetooth to realize the cash register through the Haojin merchant App on the smart POS to collect and cancel the transaction.

### 9.2 Communication method
Serial port.

Through the Micro USB interface on the smart POS device or by borrowing the base to convert to USB Host mode, connect to the cash register via USB to serial cable.

USB is more stable than Wifi, secure, and easy to deploy.

### 9.3 Payload format
| Field name | content | Description | Length |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Start indicator | 0x2f6e | start of payload | 2 Bytes |
| version | 0x01 | version (static) | 1 Byte |
| payload type | 0x10<br>0x20<br>0x30 | request <br> response <br> response error | 1 Byte |
| response reference number | 0x01 ~ 0x7f | used for request/response, payload splitting / concatenation <br> incremental for each, in loop | 1 Byte |
| payload length |   | total bytes from `Start indicator` to `End indicator` | 2字节 |
| payload length (data segment) |   |  total bytes of data segment | 2 Bytes |
| data segment |   | data segment, utf-8 encoding| non static |
| End indicator | 0x2f6e | indicate end of the payload | 2 Bytes|

### 9.4 detail explanation
#### Start indicator and end indicator

In order to avoid the situation that a data packet is split into multiple data blocks due to hardware reasons during communication, resulting in the inability to obtain the contents of the packet normally. The sender adds the start and end characters (0x2f6e) to each packet when sending the packet.

After the receiver receives the packet, it will check whether the first two bytes of the packet are the start character (0x2f6e). If not, an error packet (0x31) will be responded. Otherwise, continue to traverse the subsequent bytes until the end character.


> [!IMPORTANT]  
> 0x2f6e is the hexadecimal representation of `/n` (string, NOT the carriage return) in ASCII encoding

#### Payload error type

| error type | description |
| --- | --- |
| 0x30 | unknown |
| 0x31 | format error |
| 0x32 | validation error |
| 0x33 | data segment decrypt error |
| 0x34 | data segment format error |
| 0x35 | data segment packets error |


#### request and response
When the receiver receives the request packet (packet type is 0x10), it needs to send a response packet to inform the sender of the result of receiving the packet. If the validation is successful, the response packet type is 0x20. If the validation fails, the response packet type is 0x32. The response packet number is the same as the request packet number.

#### response timeout

Response timeout is 1000ms, if timeout, the request is considered failed, and the device is disconnected.

#### payload length
    1. total length of the payload, from start indicator to end indicator
    2. payload length of data segment
    3. since the payload length is 2 bytes, the maximum length of the data segment is 65536 bytes
    4. it is recommended to keep the data segment length within 1024 bytes, if the data segment is too long, it should be split into multiple packets

##### Data pack splitting and concatenation
When sender splits the data segment into multiple packets, the packet number is the same, and the packet length is the total length of the data segment. The receiver needs to wait for the subsequent packets with the same packet number until the packet length is equal to the total length of the data segment, and then send the response packet.

The receiver waits for the timeout of multiple packets to be *500*ms. After the timeout, the previously received packets are discarded. If subsequent packets with the same number are received, an error (0x35) response packet is sent.


#### Data encryption
The sender and receiver need to encrypt the valid data using the AES algorithm. The key is allocated by the service provider.

Key length 16 bytes 128 bits

Key offset *****
Algorithm mode CBC (Cipher Block Chaining) encryption block chain
Padding method PKCS5Padding

#### Serial port settings
Baud rate: 9600
Stop bit: 1
Parity bit: 0
Data bit: 8
Flow control: off

##### USB to serial port line chip type supported
PL2303 HXD supported
CH340 not supported
FT232 not supported

The above chip types are the most common USB to serial port chips on the market. The stability and price of the three chips are the same, FT232>CH340>PL2303

#### Sample data
Sample data is as follows:
```
{\"content\":\"{\\\"amt\\\":100,\\\"channel\\\":\\\"wx\\\",\\\"funcType\\\":1,\\\"mode\\\":1}\",\"digest\":\"2f0c4683e25a7b9407265033070e9034\"}
```
完整数据报文（16进制）为：
```
2f6e011001007f00747b22636f6e74656e74223a227b5c22616d745c223a3130302c5c226368616e6e656c5c223a5c2277785c222c5c2266756e63547970655c223a312c5c226d6f64655c223a317d222c22646967657374223a223266306334363833653235613762393430373236353033333037306539303334227d2f6e
```


    